---
id: 1306
title: Lab 6
date: 2016-03-27T11:07:31+00:00
author: anneg
layout: post
guid: http://lindsaythomas.net/engl4590/?p=1306
permalink: /2016/03/27/lab-6/
ample_page_layout:
  - default_layout
categories:
  - Lab 6
---
My network analysis of Act 3, Scene 2 of _A Midsummers Night&#8217;s Dream _allowed me to focus on the direct interactions between characters. _A Midsummers Night&#8217;s Dream _is all about chaos and confusion. It relies on the characters being confused and mixed up, which is why a network analysis can be helpful to a reader so he or she does not get sucked into that confusion as well. My table shows Oberon and Puck speaking to each other at first. Oberon mentions Titannia, even though she is not present, which is why she is a part of the network analysis. They both continue to watch the four Athenians as they fight about who loves who. Puck has made a mistake with the love juice, which is why Demetrius loves Hermia now. The extreme amount of confusion the characters are feeling in this scene can be observed through the network analysis. The visual graph shows how many interactions there were between the characters through the lines connecting them. It looks like mess of lines, which is how the scene feels. This is a huge advantage of network analysis. I have always know that _A Midsummers Night&#8217;s Dream _is a play where the plot is grounded in mistakes and confusion, but this network analysis makes that point much more vivid. There is an enormous amount of connections shown in the table, which translates into a confusing, but telling graph. Another advantage that this method adds to the literary world is a closer attention to characters. It is easy to glaze over a page that you&#8217;ve read before, such as the pages in _A Midsummers Night&#8217;s Dream _that I have read multiple times. Network analysis helps the reader to read more carefully by having a specific focus. Some challenges that this method presents is the challenge of objectivity. One person may say that Titannia should not be part of my table because she is not physically in the scene, however, her reference shows a relationship that Oberon has. I felt that she should be included in the network analysis, but some might not agree. This objective aspect of network analysis means that this method is not universal. Student and scholars can use network analysis effectively if they understand that it is an individual tool. If people use each other&#8217;s network analysis&#8217; then they are not analyzing the text for themselves. With this method, it is necessary for each individual to analyze the text from his or her perspective. The method does not work well if people are basing their thoughts on each others&#8217; analysis. This method is important for literary studies, though, because it offers a way for people to organize the text they are reading. It also promotes individualism and new ideas, while still having structure. This method can also help to further people&#8217;s close reading skills. A scholar, student, or researcher may be a very careful and close reader, but network analysis can only enhance those skills. It helps us to answer questions that we have about the characters. In addition, by seeing the character interactions more closely, we can find new questions to answer as well.