---
id: 1253
title: Lab 5b
date: 2016-03-11T22:04:16+00:00
author: betsyboggs
layout: post
guid: http://lindsaythomas.net/engl4590/?p=1253
permalink: /2016/03/11/lab-5b-12/
ample_page_layout:
  - default_layout
categories:
  - Lab 5b
---
Because I couldn&#8217;t get MALLET to work, I further explored the TopicModelingTool. I am using my mini corpus that I used in a previous lab. My mini corpus is composed of eight plain text, children&#8217;s literature files published prior to 1923. First, I uploaded my mini corpus into the TopicModelingTool, and then I clicked &#8220;Learn Topics.&#8221; Ten is the number of topics that the TopicModelingTool is set to generate unless you enter a different number in the &#8220;Number of Topics&#8221; blank. So, when I clicked &#8220;Learn Topics,&#8221; the output folders were downloaded onto my computer, and I opened them to explore and attempt to analyze the data. First, I opened the All Topics html from the output html folder, and then I clicked on each topic starting with the first in order to view the top-ranked docs for each topic. Then, I went back to the TopicModelingTool and repeated that same process first typing in the number &#8220;15&#8221; into &#8220;Number of Topics,&#8221; then typing in &#8220;20&#8221; into &#8220;Number of Topics,&#8221; and then typing in &#8220;50&#8221; into &#8220;Number of Topics.&#8221; I gradually increased the number of topic words from 10 to 15 to 20 and then jumped to 50 because I was just feeling crazy. There was honestly no method to my analyzation. Well, I didn&#8217;t think there was. I didn&#8217;t even really know how I was analyzing this corpus by changing the number of topic words, but then I realized that as I increased the number of topic words, some of the topic words that didn&#8217;t make so much sense when there were so few topics made a lot more sense when I could see more words associated with the topics. I also noticed throughout this process that certain topics seemed to be more relevant than others for certain authors. For example, when there were 10 topic words, topic 4 read &#8220;sylvia estralla grace flora mr fort fulton girl father missy.&#8221; As you can see, this is just a list of names, so it didn&#8217;t really provide me with a complete picture of that topic. In order to gain a more complete understanding of that topic, each time I increased the number of topic words, I was able to learn a little bit more about that topic. When I typed &#8220;15&#8221; into the &#8220;Number of Topics&#8221; blank, topic 4 no longer read &#8220;sylvia estralla grace flora mr fort fulton girl father missy.&#8221; Now, topic 4 read &#8220;oonomoo de huron hans dat lieutenant shawnees vanderbum dey canoe.&#8221; So, this is not at all what topic 4 looked like when the number of topics was 10&#8230;Apparently, this was a new topic completely. And this topic was completely unrelated to the topic 4 from the previous iteration of learned topics. Anyway, I ended up realizing that the number I typed into the number of topics blank dictated how many lists of topics were generated from the eight different documents in my corpus that I inputted into the TopicModelingTool. Anyway, I think I might have gotten a little bit confused in the beginning, but I think that I better understand how to use the TopicModelingTool now. However, I&#8217;m not sure that I fully understand how to use the TopicModelingTool to analyze literature. I see the potential of utilizing the TopicModelingTool to analyze literature, but I&#8217;m not sure that I can fully appreciate all the gifts that it could offer.